---
title: "git is trash (g.i.t.)"
---

As a computer science major, I am interested in Github, the world’s largest code repository, and programmers’ activities on the website. There has been a misconception about developers, thanks to the Hollywood movies that portrayed them as crazy hackers playing with extremely sophisticated interfaces. One would usually imagine Github to be a sublime place, with thousands of people actively contributing open source code to make the world a better place. This is certainly not the case; programmers are humans. They will make mistakes, and they will feel depressed or angry. However, in real life, still a lot of people are under the wrong impression. One meme that never gets old among programmers is that they are constantly approached by people asking if the programmers can fix their computer/hack into other’s accounts/create website in one week – which I have experienced personally (especially with my parents).

For this project, I wish to reveal the truth face of programmers. I conducted a search for git commit messages with swear words, gathered the time and location of those commits, and put them on a world map along a timeline. This visualization can reveal a lot of information. It can show what time programmers are most tired and ineffective (such that they start swearing) and programmers of what country are more likely to swear. By searching misspelled swear words and comparing that with the rest of the commit message, we might see how many programmers are trying to be reserved or are partially incapacitated. This might also tell something about the diversity of programmers: what would be the distribution of be racists, sexists – those who bear hate and bigotry – among the programmers – those who usually go to college and graduate with a degree in computer science. That would suggest some relationship between one’s education level and the personal values. 