---
title: "Segmented Reality"
---

While Internet has made communication easier, it also divides people. People of the same interests form secluded Internet groups and create websites/forums of their own. They set up invitation-only member registrations, or let users take admittance tests filled with questions that only “insiders” could figure out. Also, people are more aware of their privacy than ever. Despite numerous articles on ethical big data research, giant tech companies are always profit-centric, placing money in front of any ethical rules. For example, when EU fined Google for antitrust violations, Google claimed that it would start charging fees for each Android device sold in Europe. It also threatened suspension of service in France when France posed another fine. This fear of rampant Internet tycoons has pushed people even further to form secluded groups. In “Hash to the Future”, we have seen that VR/AR has become an experience, seeping into every inch of the daily life. In my picture of the future, “Dark VR”, a counterpart of “Dark web”, would appear, and almost everyone would start using “dark chatrooms” where privacy and anonymity is preserved. In Jeremy Bailey’s “The Web I Want”, he proposed using AR to better connect people together. However, I think that the application of XR technology would even separate people more – people have already become selective on what they want to see through blacklists, and in an XR world they would have more freedom to impose an “overlay” to completely remove unwanted contents from their personal worlds.
 
This Unity project will not be done with VR, because VR technology right now is not developed enough to support full-fledged chat rooms with fluent user experience. When the game starts, the users will be prompted to enter an identity code. When they enter their own ID, they would need to pass an identity check to verify that they are the holders of the account, and they would proceed to a chatroom of monotonous information. The people in the “Bright” world all choose not to upload their photos for fear of companies using their photos for analysis. If they enter a malicious code segment, the system would break down, allowing the user to escape into the “Dark” VR space. They would need to answer security questions, and mask themselves in order to enter any chatroom. The chatroom messages would be drawn from Reddit posts, implying that even daily chats have moved completely to the darker world. The people in the “Dark” world would have avatars, but these photos are drawn from [This Person Does Not Exist](https://thispersondoesnotexist.com), which are AI-generated faces, and the user never knows if they are talking to a real person or not.

 Some further work could be done to explore the concept of Dark VR. 
 
 1. The anonymity of Dark VR means that anyone, including tech company personnel, government spies, etc. could easily access the Dark VR. Users would never know if the malicious code they use is deliberately put there so that the government/large companies can easily track them down;
 
 2. It is much easier to annoy people face-to-face than by text, and spamming would be a more severe problem in VR;
 
 3. Dark VR would certainly be a place for illegal activity, like the Dark Web. Would things like “VR abduction” happen when people are able to immerse their minds into the VR world?
 
 4. Why should we trust the VR device at all? Is the "malicious code" deliberately dispersed by government officials? Are they monitoring our dark VR behaviour in the background without we even knowing their existence?